.TH GOBERZURG 3 "2026-05-13" "goberzurg" "Library Functions"
.SH NAME
goberzurg \- Go library for displaying images in terminal emulators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B package goberzurg
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B goberzurg
displays images in terminal emulators using graphics protocols (kitty, sixel,
iTerm2). It provides a high-level Renderer that auto-detects the terminal
capabilities and handles image loading, caching, and scaling.
.P
Zero external dependencies \(em pure Go standard library.
.SH TYPES
.SS Renderer
High-level API. Created with
.BR New (),
images are displayed via
.BR Display ().
.P
.nf
.ta 2n
.RS
r := goberzurg.New()
defer r.Close()
r.Display("photo.png",
    goberzurg.WithPos(5, 2),
    goberzurg.WithSize(40, 30),
)
.RE
.fi
.SS Backend
Interface implemented by all terminal backends:
.P
.nf
.RS
type Backend interface {
    Display(key string, img *Image, opts Options) error
    Clear() error
    Close() error
    Name() string
}
.RE
.fi
.SS Image
Represents a loaded image with decoded pixel data:
.P
.nf
.RS
type Image struct {
    Format  string
    Width   int
    Height  int
    Data    []byte
    Decoded image.Image
}
.RE
.fi
.SS Options
Image display parameters:
.P
.nf
.RS
type Options struct {
    Pos               // X, Y (column, row)
    Size              // Width, Height (character cells)
    ZIndex int
}
.RE
.fi
.SH FUNCTIONS
.SS New
.nf
.B func New(opts ...RendererOption) *Renderer
.fi
.P
Creates a Renderer with auto-detected backend. Use
.B WithBackend
to force a specific backend.
.SS Open
.nf
.B func Open(path string) (*Image, error)
.fi
.P
Loads an image from disk. Decodes PNG, JPEG, GIF via Go's
.IR image/stdlib .
Returns an Image with both raw data and decoded pixel buffer.
.SS ScaleToCells
.nf
.B func ScaleToCells(img *Image, cellW, cellH int) (*Image, error)
.fi
.P
Rescales an image to new dimensions in character cells (1 cell = 10 px).
Uses nearest-neighbor interpolation. If one dimension is 0, aspect ratio
is preserved. If both are 0, the original image is returned unchanged.
.SS Detect
.nf
.B func Detect() Backend
.fi
.P
Auto-detects the terminal backend from environment variables
.RB ( KITTY_WINDOW_ID ,
.BR TERM_PROGRAM ,
.BR TERM ).
.SS NewKittyBackend, NewSixelBackend, NewIterm2Backend
.nf
.B func NewKittyBackend() *KittyBackend
.B func NewSixelBackend() *SixelBackend
.B func NewIterm2Backend() *Iterm2Backend
.fi
.P
Create specific backends. Each writes escape sequences to
.B os.Stdout
by default.
.SH OPTION FUNCTIONS
.nf
.B func WithPos(x, y int) Option
.B func WithSize(w, h int) Option
.B func WithZIndex(z int) Option
.B func WithBackend(b Backend) RendererOption
.fi
.P
.B WithPos
sets the column and row position.
.B WithSize
sets the width and height in character cells.
.B WithZIndex
sets the stacking order.
.B WithBackend
forces a specific backend when creating a Renderer.
.SH BUBBLETEA INTEGRATION
The goberzurg backend writes directly to
.BR os.Stdout ,
which is compatible with bubbletea's rendering pipeline:
.P
.nf
.RS
type model struct {
    renderer *goberzurg.Renderer
}

func (m model) Update(msg tea.Msg) (tea.Model, tea.Cmd) {
    switch msg := msg.(type) {
    case tea.KeyMsg:
        if msg.String() == "q" {
            return m, tea.Quit
        }
    }
    return m, nil
}

func (m model) View() string {
    m.renderer.Display("photo.png", goberzurg.WithPos(0, 0))
    return "Hello\\n"
}

func main() {
    r := goberzurg.New()
    defer r.Close()
    tea.NewProgram(model{renderer: r}).Run()
}
.RE
.fi
.SH BACKENDS
.TP
Kitty
kitty, wezterm, ghostty \(em
.B KITTY_WINDOW_ID
.TP
Sixel
xterm, mlterm, foot \(em
.B TERM
contains "sixel"
.TP
iTerm2
iTerm2 \(em
.B TERM_PROGRAM
is "iTerm.app" or "iTerm2"
.SH FILE OVERVIEW
.TP
goberzurg.go
Core types: Pos, Size, Options, Option funcs
.TP
image.go
Image loading, format detection, PNG/JPEG encoding, ScaleToCells
.TP
renderer.go
Backend interface, Renderer high-level API
.TP
kitty.go
Kitty terminal protocol backend
.TP
sixel.go
Sixel graphics backend
.TP
iterm2.go
iTerm2 inline images backend
.TP
detect.go
Automatic terminal detection
.SH AUTHOR
Gil Ferrand
.SH LICENSE
MIT
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR goberzurg (1)
