.TH GOBERZURG 1 "2026-05-13" "goberzurg" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
goberzurg \- display images in the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B goberzurg
[OPTIONS] <path> [x] [y] [width] [height]
.br
.B goberzurg
[OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B goberzurg
displays images in terminal emulators using terminal graphics protocols
(kitty, sixel, iTerm2). The backend is auto-detected based on environment
variables.
.P
Width and height are specified in character cells and are scaled
programmatically, producing identical results across all backends.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-backend <name>
Force a specific backend (\fBkitty\fR, \fBsixel\fR, \fBiterm2\fR).
.TP
.B \-\-list-backends
List available backends and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
path
Path to the image file (PNG, JPEG, GIF).
.TP
x
Column position (default: 0).
.TP
y
Row position (default: 0).
.TP
width
Width in character cells (default: 0 = auto).
.TP
height
Height in character cells (default: 0 = auto).
.SH STDIN PROTOCOL
When invoked without positional arguments,
.B goberzurg
reads JSON or plain-text commands from stdin.
.P
JSON format:
.RS
.IP
{"action":"add","path":"img.png","x":5,"y":2,"width":40,"height":30,"z":1}
.IP
{"action":"clear"}
.IP
{"action":"quit"}
.RE
.P
Plain-text format:
.RS
.IP
add img.png 5 2 40 30
.IP
clear
.IP
quit
.RE
.P
Commands: \fBadd\fR / \fBdisplay\fR, \fBclear\fR / \fBremove\fR, \fBquit\fR / \fBexit\fR.
.SH BACKENDS
.TP
Kitty
kitty, wezterm, ghostty (auto-detected via KITTY_WINDOW_ID)
.TP
Sixel
xterm, mlterm, foot (auto-detected via TERM)
.TP
iTerm2
iTerm2 (auto-detected via TERM_PROGRAM)
.SH DETECTION PRIORITY
.IP 1. 3
$KITTY_WINDOW_ID             →  kitty
.IP 2.
$TERM_PROGRAM == iTerm.app
or iTerm2                    →  iTerm2
.IP 3.
$TERM_PROGRAM == WezTerm
or wezterm                   →  kitty
.IP 4.
$TERM contains "sixel"
or "xterm"                   →  sixel
.IP 5.
$TERM_PROGRAM set (other)    →  kitty
.IP 6.
fallback                     →  kitty
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Display at column 5, row 2:
goberzurg photo.png 5 2
.TP
Display with size 40x30 cells:
goberzurg photo.png 5 2 40 30
.TP
Force sixel backend:
goberzurg --backend sixel photo.png 5 2
.TP
Stdin JSON protocol (supports x, y, width, height, z):
echo '{"action":"add","path":"img.png","x":5,"y":2,"width":40,"height":30,"z":1}' | goberzurg
.TP
Stdin text protocol (supports x, y, width, height):
echo 'add img.png 5 2 40 30' | goberzurg
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/goberzurg
CLI binary
.SH AUTHOR
Gil Ferrand
.SH LICENSE
MIT
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR kitty (1),
.IR xterm (1),
.IR iTerm2
